Add TestHarness python integration scripts to dev package (#818)
AntelopeIO/leap: CMakeLists.txt

install(DIRECTORY "${CMAKE_CURRENT_BINARY_DIR}/licenses/leap" DESTINATION "${CMAKE_INSTALL_FULL_DATAROOTDIR}/licenses/" COMPONENT base)

install(DIRECTORY ${CMAKE_CURRENT_BINARY_DIR}/libraries/testing/contracts DESTINATION ${CMAKE_INSTALL_FULL_DATAROOTDIR}/leap_testing/libraries/testing COMPONENT base
        PATTERN "CMakeFiles" EXCLUDE
        PATTERN "*.cmake" EXCLUDE
        PATTERN "Makefile" EXCLUDE)

> install(DIRECTORY ${CMAKE_CURRENT_BINARY_DIR}/unittests/contracts DESTINATION ${CMAKE_INSTALL_FULL_DATAROOTDIR}/leap_testing/unittests COMPONENT base

Reviewer: should this have been `COMPONENT dev` here?

Author: Yes.  Good catch. Thanks.

Addressed: [6f16347](https://github.com/AntelopeIO/leap/pull/818/commits/6f16347f6e71cb8a4fd924dcf35ed9f1eaf59a0f)

        PATTERN "CMakeFiles" EXCLUDE
        PATTERN "*.cmake" EXCLUDE
        PATTERN "Makefile" EXCLUDE)
install(DIRECTORY ${CMAKE_CURRENT_BINARY_DIR}/tests/TestHarness DESTINATION ${CMAKE_INSTALL_FULL_DATAROOTDIR}/leap_testing/tests COMPONENT dev
        FILES_MATCHING
        PATTERN "*.py"
        PATTERN "*.json"
        PATTERN "__pycache__" EXCLUDE
        PATTERN "CMakeFiles" EXCLUDE)
install(FILES ${CMAKE_CURRENT_BINARY_DIR}/tests/launcher.py DESTINATION ${CMAKE_INSTALL_FULL_DATAROOTDIR}/leap_testing/tests COMPONENT dev)

install(CODE "execute_process( COMMAND ${CMAKE_COMMAND} -E make_directory ${CMAKE_INSTALL_FULL_LIBDIR}/python3/dist-packages)" COMPONENT dev)
install(CODE "execute_process( COMMAND ${CMAKE_COMMAND} -E create_symlink ../../../share/leap_testing/tests/TestHarness ${CMAKE_INSTALL_FULL_LIBDIR}/python3/dist-packages/TestHarness)" COMPONENT dev)

> install(CODE "execute_process( COMMAND ${CMAKE_COMMAND} -E create_symlink ../../bin ${CMAKE_INSTALL_FULL_DATAROOTDIR}/leap_testing/bin)" COMPONENT dev)

Reviewer: How do these work for the `leap-dev.deb` package? I downloaded the leap-dev.deb from the CI run, and when I
```
ar x leap-dev_4.0.0-dev-ubuntu20.04_amd64.deb
tar tlf data.tar.gz  | less
```
I don't see these symlinks anywhere. And I don't see any thing else magical from cmake in the package either. Admittedly I didn't try actually installing...

Author: The symbolic links are now created in the install step making use of the `postinit` script that has been added.  Had to jump through some hoops since there are issues with `create_symlink` in cmake versions < 3.22, so there are 2 paths now based on cmake versions.  Added some notes in the PR description.

Reviewer 2: Try it with the verbose flag, like this: 
```
ar x leap-dev_4.0.0-dev-ubuntu20.04_amd64.deb data.tar.gz
tar tlvf data.tar.gz | rg "\->"
```

If you haven't installed ripgrep yet, what are you waiting for? Its half the typing of grep! that alone is a win!

install(DIRECTORY "${CMAKE_CURRENT_BINARY_DIR}/licenses/leap" DESTINATION "${CMAKE_INSTALL_FULL_DATAROOTDIR}/licenses/" COMPONENT base)

> install(DIRECTORY ${CMAKE_CURRENT_BINARY_DIR}/libraries/testing/contracts DESTINATION ${CMAKE_INSTALL_FULL_DATAROOTDIR}/leap_testing/libraries/testing COMPONENT dev

Reviewer: Unfortunately, for any place you have a `COMPONENT dev` it should also be `EXCLUDE_FROM_ALL`.

The problem is, we want `make install` to only install the files from the base component (or put another way, we want `make install` to ignore anything we classify as a dev install), but there is no way afaik to control the behavior of `make install` since it's a built in target that can't be overridden. So we have to resort to peeling away all these from the "install all" target.

The reason we go through this trouble is that historically, before the `COMPONENT dev EXCLUDE_FROM_ALL` behavior, a `make install` could install header files that were in a path with higher precedence than our own source tree. As you can imagine this led to users (and devs!) getting in to really wonky problems when the, for example, fc headers in /usr/local/include would be used instead of the fc headers in the current source tree. There is a little more about discussion on this in eosnetworkfoundation/mandel#277

Author: Addressed: [be154da](https://github.com/AntelopeIO/leap/pull/818/commits/be154da6036dbe810631b53b32afee58491767fc)

        PATTERN "CMakeFiles" EXCLUDE
        PATTERN "*.cmake" EXCLUDE
        PATTERN "Makefile" EXCLUDE)
install(DIRECTORY ${CMAKE_CURRENT_BINARY_DIR}/unittests/contracts DESTINATION ${CMAKE_INSTALL_FULL_DATAROOTDIR}/leap_testing/unittests COMPONENT dev
        PATTERN "CMakeFiles" EXCLUDE
        PATTERN "*.cmake" EXCLUDE
        PATTERN "Makefile" EXCLUDE)
install(DIRECTORY ${CMAKE_CURRENT_BINARY_DIR}/tests/TestHarness DESTINATION ${CMAKE_INSTALL_FULL_DATAROOTDIR}/leap_testing/tests COMPONENT dev
        FILES_MATCHING
        PATTERN "*.py"
        PATTERN "*.json"
        PATTERN "__pycache__" EXCLUDE
        PATTERN "CMakeFiles" EXCLUDE)
install(FILES ${CMAKE_CURRENT_BINARY_DIR}/tests/launcher.py DESTINATION ${CMAKE_INSTALL_FULL_DATAROOTDIR}/leap_testing/tests COMPONENT dev)

> if(${CMAKE_VERSION} GREATER 3.22)

Reviewer: Probably should use `VERSION_GREATER` here (or maybe even `VERSION_GREATER_EQUAL` to make it a little clearer); also no need to expand the variable.

Can you explain a little more what the problem is for pre vs post 3.22 (3.23?)? For example, you only set the `CPACK_DEBIAN_PACKAGE_CONTROL_EXTRA` in the pre-3.22/3 path; is it really unneeded in the post-3.22/3 path? Is it really not possible to just use the pre-3.22/3 path on all versions?

Author: Just double checking, you're suggesting:

`if(CMAKE_VERSION VERSION_GREATER_EQUAL 3.22)`

Yeah I can get on board with that, it is clearer.

Author: > Can you explain a little more what the problem is for pre vs post 3.22 (3.23?)? For example, you only set the `CPACK_DEBIAN_PACKAGE_CONTROL_EXTRA` in the pre-3.22/3 path; is it really unneeded in the post-3.22/3 path? Is it really not possible to just use the pre-3.22/3 path on all versions?

Because of the use of `install(CODE` and the false error reporting that comes out of that piece during a `make package`, was hoping to leave the >3.22 path in place with the hopes of remove the <3.22 path when we get to a point where we aren't supporting older versions of cmake where the `create_symlink` function has yet to be fixed.  And also alleviate that reporting for anyone building/installing on newer cmake toolchains.

Reviewer: Yes but `if(CMAKE_VERSION VERSION_GREATER_EQUAL 3.22)` may be different then `if(${CMAKE_VERSION} GREATER 3.22)` because the original might not have been true for 3.22.0 since 3.22.0 might not have been greater than 3.22. So double check which version you really want here maybe it's 3.22 or 3.23

Author: So it is actually due to cmake (fixed in 3.21) not allowing symbolic links to a directory to be installed via `install(FILES`

Cmake 3.21 fixed this (https://gitlab.kitware.com/cmake/cmake/-/commit/d71a7cc19d6e03f89581efdaa8d63db216184d40)
`Allow symbolic links to a directory to be installed via install(FILES ...)`

Author: Addressed: [be154da](https://github.com/AntelopeIO/leap/pull/818/commits/be154da6036dbe810631b53b32afee58491767fc)

      COMMAND ${CMAKE_COMMAND} -E make_directory lib/python3/dist-packages
      COMMAND ${CMAKE_COMMAND} -E create_symlink ../../../share/leap_testing/tests/TestHarness lib/python3/dist-packages/TestHarness
      COMMAND ${CMAKE_COMMAND} -E make_directory share/leap_testing
      COMMAND ${CMAKE_COMMAND} -E create_symlink ../../bin share/leap_testing/bin)

   install(FILES ${CMAKE_CURRENT_BINARY_DIR}/lib/python3/dist-packages/TestHarness DESTINATION ${CMAKE_INSTALL_FULL_LIBDIR}/python3/dist-packages COMPONENT dev)
   install(FILES ${CMAKE_CURRENT_BINARY_DIR}/share/leap_testing/bin DESTINATION ${CMAKE_INSTALL_FULL_DATAROOTDIR}/leap_testing COMPONENT dev)
else()
   install(CODE "execute_process( COMMAND ${CMAKE_COMMAND} -E make_directory ${CMAKE_INSTALL_FULL_LIBDIR}/python3/dist-packages)" COMPONENT dev)
   install(CODE "execute_process( COMMAND ${CMAKE_COMMAND} -E create_symlink ../../../share/leap_testing/tests/TestHarness ${CMAKE_INSTALL_FULL_LIBDIR}/python3/dist-packages/TestHarness)" COMPONENT dev)
   install(CODE "execute_process( COMMAND ${CMAKE_COMMAND} -E create_symlink ../../bin ${CMAKE_INSTALL_FULL_DATAROOTDIR}/leap_testing/bin)" COMPONENT dev)

>    set(CPACK_DEBIAN_PACKAGE_CONTROL_EXTRA ${CMAKE_BINARY_DIR}/scripts/postinst COMPONENT dev)

Reviewer: I'm not sure this `set()` should have a `COMPONENT dev`.. that doesn't seem right. It seems like instead you'd want `set(CPACK_DEBIAN_DEV_PACKAGE_CONTROL_EXTRA ${CMAKE_BINARY_DIR}/scripts/postinst)`. I also would suggest considering placing this inside of `package.cmake` along with all the other package related stuff to keep all package related stuff together.

Author: Addressed: [be154da](https://github.com/AntelopeIO/leap/pull/818/commits/be154da6036dbe810631b53b32afee58491767fc)

        PATTERN "CMakeFiles" EXCLUDE
        PATTERN "*.cmake" EXCLUDE
        PATTERN "Makefile" EXCLUDE)
install(DIRECTORY ${CMAKE_CURRENT_BINARY_DIR}/unittests/contracts DESTINATION ${CMAKE_INSTALL_FULL_DATAROOTDIR}/leap_testing/unittests COMPONENT dev EXCLUDE_FROM_ALL
        PATTERN "CMakeFiles" EXCLUDE
        PATTERN "*.cmake" EXCLUDE
        PATTERN "Makefile" EXCLUDE)
install(DIRECTORY ${CMAKE_CURRENT_BINARY_DIR}/tests/TestHarness DESTINATION ${CMAKE_INSTALL_FULL_DATAROOTDIR}/leap_testing/tests COMPONENT dev EXCLUDE_FROM_ALL
        FILES_MATCHING
        PATTERN "*.py"
        PATTERN "*.json"
        PATTERN "__pycache__" EXCLUDE
        PATTERN "CMakeFiles" EXCLUDE)
install(FILES ${CMAKE_CURRENT_BINARY_DIR}/tests/launcher.py DESTINATION ${CMAKE_INSTALL_FULL_DATAROOTDIR}/leap_testing/tests COMPONENT dev EXCLUDE_FROM_ALL)

if(CMAKE_VERSION VERSION_GREATER_EQUAL 3.21)
   # Cmake versions < 3.21 did not support installing symbolic links to a directory via install(FILES ...)
   # Cmake 3.21 fixed this (https://gitlab.kitware.com/cmake/cmake/-/commit/d71a7cc19d6e03f89581efdaa8d63db216184d40)

>    # If/when the lowest cmake version supported becomes >= 3.21, the else block as well as the postinit script
>    # would be a good option to remove in favor of using the facilities in cmake directly.

Reviewer 2: Minor issue, let's add prerm to the comment.
```suggestion
   # If/when the lowest cmake version supported becomes >= 3.21, the else block as well as the postinit and
   # prerm scripts would be a good option to remove in favor of using the facilities in cmake / cpack directly.
```
